BARDCNV(1)            User Contributed Perl Documentation           BARDCNV(1)



NAME
       bardCNV.pl - given a file of heterozygous positions (in a normal
       diploid sample), set the parameters and solve for the states of a hid-
       den Markov model to predict copy number state in a matched tumor sam-
       ple.

SYNOPSIS
         bardCNV.pl --normalbam <bam file from normal sample> --tumorbam <bam file from tumor> --ref <reference fasta> --hetfile <BED formatted file of positions heterozygous in the normal>
         bardCNV.pl --trio --mombam <bam file from mother's sample> --dadbam <bam file from father's sample> --childbam <bam file from child>

DESCRIPTION
       Using B-allele frequencies within sequence from a tumor sample, and the
       depth of coverage of the tumor compared to normal sequencing read
       depth, bardCNV.pl predicts copy number (including the copy counts of
       both alleles) using an HMM trained on these two features.  The program
       requires a list of high-confidence sites which are believed to be
       diploid and heterozygous in the normal sample.  For these sites, the
       B-allele frequency in the tumor sample helps bardCNV to pin down the
       ratio of the major to minor copy number allele, and thus helps to
       determine the overall ploidy, and optionally, the purity level of the
       tumor sample.

OPTIONS
       --normalbam
           Specify the path of a BAM file containing the aligned sequence data
           from the normal sample (required).

       --tumorbam
           Specify the path of a BAM file containing the aligned sequence data
           from the tumor sample (required).

       --ref
           Specify the path of the reference fasta file to which reads from
           the BAM files are aligned (required).

       --mindepth
           Specify the minimum total depth of coverage required to included a
           heterozygous site in the observables written to the observable file
           (default 0).

       --maxcopies
           Specify the maximum total number of copies to use in the training
           step (limits memory and CPU usage) (default 12, maximum 16).

       --transprob
           Specify the starting value for the transition probability between
           different states (which is constrained to be the same for all
           inter-state transitions (default 0.0001).  To fix the transition
           probability so that it is not optimized using Baum-Welch, use the
           "--fixedtrans" option.

       --fixedtrans
           Do not optimize the state transition probabilities using
           Baum-Welch.  Often, allowing the transition probability to vary
           will result in overfitting of the model with an overly-large tran-
           sition probability, allowing the introduction of small artifactual
           copy number changes to increase the likelihood of data that doesn't
           conform to the overly-simplistic Gaussian model.

       --sigratio
           Specify the starting value for the standard deviation of the (Gaus-
           sian distributed) ratio of depth of coverage in the tumor sequence
           to depth of coverage in the normal sequence (default 3.00).

       --contam
           Specify the percentage contamination of the tumor tissue which is
           estimated to actually be unaffected (default 0.01).

       --optcontam
           Train the model for a range of contamination values, then output
           states for the optimal model at the optimal contamination.

       --mincontam
           If using --optcontam option, this is the minimum value of the con-
           tamination parameter to test (default 0.01).  Note: if any value
           less then 0.01 is specified, 0.01 will be used.

       --maxcontam
           If using --optcontam option, this is the maximum value of the con-
           tamination parameter to test (default 0.50).  Note: if any value
           greater than 0.99 is specified, 0.99 will be used.

       --male
           Omit any chromosome containing the character "X" in the training
           step (this is because sites, at least in the non-PAR regions of X
           for a male, cannot be heterozygous.

AUTHOR
        Nancy F. Hansen - nhansen@mail.nih.gov

LEGAL
       This software/database is "United States Government Work" under the
       terms of the United States Copyright Act.  It was written as part of
       the authors' official duties for the United States Government and thus
       cannot be copyrighted.  This software/database is freely available to
       the public for use without a copyright notice.  Restrictions cannot be
       placed on its present or future use.

       Although all reasonable efforts have been taken to ensure the accuracy
       and reliability of the software and data, the National Human Genome
       Research Institute (NHGRI) and the U.S. Government does not and cannot
       warrant the performance or results that may be obtained by using this
       software or data.  NHGRI and the U.S.  Government disclaims all war-
       ranties as to performance, merchantability or fitness for any particu-
       lar purpose.

       In any work or product derived from this material, proper attribution
       of the authors as the source of the software or data should be made,
       using "NHGRI Genome Technology Branch" as the citation.



perl v5.8.8                       2013-09-24                        BARDCNV(1)
